How to create files and folders in Linux? 

To change font size in putty: Right click-change settings-appearance- font-ok-apply

sudo -i is the command used to become root or super user. 

cd /tmp is the command used to change directory to a temporary folder. temporary folder is not used to store important files as they'll be deleted automatically after 30 days. 

mkdir is the command used to create a folder in the directory. 
Ex: mkdir test means it'll create the test folder in the directory. 

If you highlight text in putty, it'll be copied automatically. No need to use ctrl+c.

touch is the command used to create the empty files in the directory. 

ctrl+d is used to paste the directory. 
cat >>test4 is used to create the file test4. we can add any data to that.
cat test4 is used to display the content in the file test4. 

vi test2 is used to open file test2 in vi editor. 
vi is the another command. vi editor has 3 modes.
1) escape mode
2) insert mode -should be in insert mode to add data.
    there are 6 options. i,I,a,A,o,O.
3) command mode
    i takes us to the insert mode. we can type any data.
    esc button escapes us from the current mode.
    I takes us to the starting point of the line when we are in the escape mode.
    A takes us to the ending point of the line when we are in the escape mode. 
    G takes us to the starting point of the last line when we are in the escape mode.
    gg takes us to the starting point of the first line when we are in the escape mode.
    2gg takes us to the starting point of the second line when we are in the escape mode.
    1000gg takes us to the starting point of the 1000th line when we are in the escape mode. 
    dd will delete the line where we placed cursor, when we are in the escape mode.
    u is for undo in putty. 
    yy is used to copy the line where we place cursor when we are in the eccape mode.
    p is used to paste the line when we are in the escape mode.  

shift+ : takes us to the command mode in the vi editor so that we can type our commands. 
wq!(w for save, q for quit) takes us to the normal putty screen(out of the vi mode).

If putty become inactive with some technical issue: 
right click- restart session - ec2-user