If we have 2 servers (master & client) afetr copying key from master to authorizrd_keys file to the client machine

ssh (client machine ip address) used to connect client machine from the master server. 

[root@master ~]# ssh 172.31.18.149

after that we need to copy the ip addresses with the group name in the hosts file of the ansible folder.

ansible -m ping dev(we need to give group name in the hosts file, not the client machine name) is used to check the communication with dev group of servers. 

a file with the programm in the ansible is called as playbook(set of instructions or tasks).
A playbook is useful for automation purpose. We can execute no. of tasks at the same time. 
A playbook is written in yemen language(normal english language). so the file ends with .yaml or .yml not with .sh. 

In cubernetes also, we use the yemen language. 

In the ansible server we can use vi program.yml to write program.yml playbook.
Insert mode:     ---           (starting of the file). 
                 - hosts: Dev 
                  tasks:
                 - name: creating user
                   user: name=pawan state=present
                 - name: creating a file
                   file: name=/tmp/test state=touch
                 - name: installing application
                    yum: name=docker state=installed 

In yemen language indentation is very important(spaces and syntax).
to the colon(:), left side we write the modules and right side we write the arguments. 
always space after colon(:) and after -. 
We can do any no. of tasks in the single playbook as written above. 

In the ansible server ansible-playbook program.yml command is used to execute the program.yml playbook.
After execution, we can see each task which is being executed, which is being not. 

colour coding in output:
 yellow colour means change happened.(changed=true)
 green colour means it's already there, change not happened(changed=false).

output:
172.31.0.150               : ok=2    changed=1    unreachable=0    failed=0    skipped=0    rescued=0    ignored=0
If this serever skipped for some reason(if the given command don't work on this server, yum command won't work on ubuntu server), then skipped will be 1. 

ansible.cfg is the file having configurations related to the ansible. 
in the ansible server we can do ls, we can open ansible.cfg.(vi ansible.cfg)
we can manage inventory files(where we are giving server details) and any other files here related to ansible. 
We can change the colours here too if we want(highlight, warn, error).

ansible-palybook program.yml --syntax-check is the command used to check the syntax of playbook program.yml
If the syntax is correct, it'll not show anything. 

ansible-playbook program.yml --check is the command uded to do the trail on playbook program.yml
It means it'll show you the output. but it'll be executed on the client machines. 

If we are writing the multiple blocks in single playbook --- is used to separate blocks.
ansible-playbook program.yml --step is the command used to execute playbook blockwise(It'll ask permission for each --- mark). 

there are commands to write Linux commands in ansible playbook(shell). 

ansible-playbook program.yml --list-tasks is the command used to display the tasks list of program.yml playbook. 
up arrow in the Linux is used to get the previous command.




